I took a cell phone and accidentally
made myself famous I was just talking
about the things that I cared about but
what a click of a button and an
incendiary viral video I propelled
myself into overnight stardom when I say
overnight I mean I literally woke up the
next morning with so many notifications
on my phone I thought I slept through a
national tragedy it was the craziest
thing guys but when it came to my
influence to my exposure I literally
took a quantum leap so I made more
videos and the subject matter of my
videos was often the most divisive
subject in American life but it was the
way that I articulated race that made me
somewhat of a digital lightning rod see
being a survivor myself a
police-brutality having lost the
childhood friend
Alonzo Ashley at the hands of the police
I had a little something to say about
the topic you see this was at the height
of the black lives matter furor and
people seemed to be turning to me to
articulate their viewpoints and honestly
it was sort of overwhelming you see the
Internet has this interesting quality in
one way totally brought the world
together and I remember being a kid and
all of this utopian propaganda was being
dumped on us about how the World Wide
Web was gonna span the reaches of people
across the globe but as it turns out
people are people and this magical
superhighway also took the demons of our
nature and gave them Ferraris
you see technology y'all is a lot like
money this brings out what's already
inside you when amplify see and so I
soon became familiar with the phenomenon
of the internet troll these guys seem to
live beneath the bridges of said
superhighway and they also missed the
memo about the enlightenment of the
Internet age
I am remember being called highly
colorful racial slurs by those who use
the anonymity of the Internet as a clan
hood and someone were pretty creative
actually but others were pretty wounding
especially navigating the post tramatic
world of a police-brutality survivor in
the height of black lives matter what
all of these people being killed on my
timeline to these trolls I wasn't the
human I was an idea an object a
caricature did I mention that this race
stuff can be kind of devices you see I'm
an innately curious person and as I drew
my sword to engage in epic battles in
the comments section
I also I also began to notice that a few
of my trolls actually had brains which
made me even more curious and want to
understand them even further and
although these suppose and morons
engaged in what appeared to be original
thought I said to myself um these guys
are highly misinformed
at least according to my knowledge where
are these guys getting these arguments
from like was there some kind of
alternative universe with alternative
facts
it was was history and gravity optional
over there I don't know but I needed to
know like I wanted to know and as it
turns out I had no idea about digital
echo chambers that same target marketing
algorithm that feeds you more of the
products you like to buy also feed you
more the news that you like to hear I
had been living in an online university
reflecting my worldview back to me so my
timeline was pretty liberal
I had no Breitbart or Infowars or Fox
News no no I was on MSNBC and The Daily
Show CNN and the grill right well these
trolls were hopping the dimensional
doorway and I needed to figure out how
so what I decided to do was trick the
Facebook algorithm in defeating me more
news that I didn't necessarily agree
with and it's worked for a while but it
wasn't enough because my online
footprint already established the
patterns that I like to hear so with the
anonymity of the Internet I went
undercover I set up this ghost profile
and went crazy now on a practical level
like it was very simple but on an
emotional level it was kind of daunting
especially with the racist vitriol that
I had experienced but what I didn't
realize is that my trolls were
inoculating me thickening my skin making
me immune to viewpoints that I didn't
necessarily agree with and so I didn't
react to the same things as I would have
several months prior all right so I
pressed on noticing that this stuff also
worked on YouTube I became lucious 25
white supremacist lurker
and digitally I began to infiltrate the
infamous alt-right movement now my
doppelganger was Edgar Rice Burroughs is
John Carter character a sci-fi hero who
was once a Confederate soldier and to
think like years ago I would have needed
like acting training and like makeup and
a fake ID now I could just lurk and so
um I started with a little info wars
went on into some American Renaissance
national Vanguard Alliance and uh you
know I started commenting on videos
talking bad about Al Sharpton in black
lives matter I started uh bemoaning race
baiters like Eric Holder and Barack
Obama and just mirroring the anti black
sentiments that were thrown at me and to
be honest it was kind of exhilarating
like I would literally spend days
clicking through my new racist profile
goofing goofing off at work an Aryan
Land it was something else
and so I then started visiting some of
the pages of my former trolls and a lot
of these guys were just regular jobs a
lot of outdoorsmen hunters computer
nerds
some of them family guys with videos of
their families I mean for all I know
some of y'all could be in his room right
now right but when I went undercover I
found a lovely plethora of characters
luminaries like Milo you Napoles Richard
Spencer and David Duke all of these guys
were thought leaders in their own right
but over time the alt-right movement
ended up using their information to fuel
their momentum and I'm gonna tell you
what else led to the momentum of the
alright the left wings wholesale
demonization of everything white and
male if you are a pale skinned penis
haver you're in league with Satan now
would you believe would you believe that
some people find that offensive and and
so I mean listen the fact is is that
Millennials get a lifetime of Diet brand
history I mean America seems to be
hell-bent on filling its textbooks with
cliff notes versions of its dark past
this severely severely decontextualized
his race and the anger associated with
it and that is fertile ground for all
facts to grow add in the wild landscape
of the internet and it's easy to sell
rebranded mine comp ideas to a
generation who has been failed by public
schools a lot of these ideas easily
debunked all the facts have that quality
however one thing kept screaming at me
through the subtext of those arguments
and that was why should I be hated for
who I cannot help but be that was a
black man in America that resonated with
me I've spent so much time defending
myself
against attempts to demonize me and make
me apologize for who I am trying to
portray me as something that I'm not
some kind of thug gangster a menace to
society unexpected compassion Wow
now listen I'm the historical source of
the demonization of black males and
white males is highly different and
where you fall on this argument
sadly tends to be an accident of birth
now you're probably surprised by this
perspective and so was I never in a
billion years and I think that I can
have some kind of compassion for people
who hated my guts now mind you not
enough comparison like want to be
friends I don't have infinite olive
branches to extend the people who like
would not want to see me on this planet
right but just enough compassion to
understand how they got to where they
are and to be honest there were a couple
of fair points one of them how is
liberals have this wide acceptance for
everybody except for those with honestly
held conservative viewpoints
heaven forbid you love God this country
and mean it right and another thing that
they talked about was this fear that
they had if something that they labeled
as white genocide that diversity would
be a force that will wipe them out now
listen I know what it is to fear for the
fate of your people between crack AIDS
gang violence mass incarceration
gentrification police shootings like
people have more than enough reasons to
stay up at night but if nature is into
diversity and you're not you're gonna
lose that fight buddy
[Applause]
you see nature doesn't care about your
race that's man-made Nature just cares
about healthy organisms and your
precious ethnic features are expendable
to that end so the moment so the moment
that you let go of that race this
identity and re-latch onto humanity all
your problems go away I'm gonna tell you
what race ain't about to die out the
human race
join the party the water's great until
the water gets too hot but that's
another TED talk the point is is that to
get to this point of understanding you
have to let go of that fear and embrace
your curiosity and sadly too many people
will not take that journey to see the
world from the other side and I mean
let's be honest that doesn't just go for
progressives but also to the right-wing
and conservatives you know as fair as
some of their points were and we're
still trapped in their own echo chambers
recycling old outdated points of view
never getting a diversity in perspective
not making them well-rounded in the
world view so they're not hearing
certain anti-racist and political voices
and voices like Tim Wise and Michelle
Alexander dr. joy to Gryba Watkins to
reek Nasheed all of these voices have
the answers to the questions that they
want but unfortunately they will not
hear them due to the power of these echo
chambers we have got to break out of
these digital divides because as our
technology advances the consequences of
our tribalism become like more dangerous
and this whole experience taught me
something our gadgets ain't going to
save us all these technological devices
are only mastery of the universe out
there not the one in here and so that's
all IQ not EQ that's a dangerous
imbalance where did you get the
emotional intelligence the character
development the virtues of patience
forbearance compassion you know the
things that make sure that these devices
however
advance become a blessing and not a
curse seems to me that humanity itself
needs an upgrade now that's a big task
understandably but I don't believe in
any kind of unbeatable monster there was
no giant out there without perhaps a
simple Achilles heel now what if I told
you that one of the best ways to
actually overcome this is to have
courageous conversations with difficult
people people who do not see the world
the same way that you see the world
oh yes folks conversations maybe indeed
the key to that upgrade because remember
language was the first form of virtual
reality it is literally a symbolic
representation of the physical world and
through this device we changed the
physical world
keep in mind conversations stop violence
conversations start countries they build
bridges and when it chips it down
conversations are the last tool that
humans use before they pick up the guns
and I'm talking about online safe
conversations from the security of your
laptop no I'm talking about in-your-face
conversations with real breathing people
and for me this looks like running a
community forum called shop Talk live
now in java talk line somebody been
there right in shop Talk live we have
the conversations that change lives we
meet the community right where they are
and we've done everything from divert
gang violence in real time to help find
people jobs to mentoring homeless youth
and the reason why we needed to do this
is because there was a severe lack of
trust in the black community due to the
violence of the crack era and so we
ended up taking HSE into our own hands
solving our own problems not waiting for
anybody else and the truth is from the
mayor to the felon you're gonna find
them in that barber shop and so what we
did was just organize what was already
going on and so what I started doing was
mining these alternative viewpoints from
these alternative digital
universe's dissecting them breaking them
down into controversial talking points
then with my cell phone I flip the
internet against itself and began to
broadcast these live conversations to my
online followers this made them want to
leave the safety of their laptops and
meet us in person to have real
conversations with real people in real
life and we did this thank you
sometime I sit back and I reflect on the
paradox of me just trying to solve the
problems us trying to solve the problems
in our own communities we build bridges
to so many other communities from the
LGBTQ community to the arab immigrant
community and even sat down but somebody
with a confederate flag on a hat and
talked about the things that actually
mattered
it is time that we stop trying to hack
our way around the human experience
there is no way out of each other stop
trying to find one we we have to we have
to understand something human beings all
want the same things and we have to go
through each other to get these things
these courageous conversations are the
way these bridges are built it is time
that we start seeing people as people
and not simply the ideas that we project
onto them or react to human beings are
not the barriers but the gateways to the
very things that we want this is a
collective and conscious evolution my
journey began with a terribly popular
cell phone video and a fallen friend
your journey begins right about now join
the Renaissance and human connection it
is going to happen with or without you
my suggestion pick a topic and start a
community dialogue in your neck of the
woods meet folks back in real life and
I'm going to tell you when you trick the
algorithm of your existence you will
give some diversified experiences it is
time to grow people and when we do this
not if it will be clear that the key to
this upgrade was always our inner world
not some device that we create and the
doorways to this experience is now and
will forever be each other thank you
[Applause]